---
layout: post
title: Week 13
---

## The Cathedral and the Bazaar

This week we had our class discussion about *The Cathedral and the Bazaar*. My
favorite quote from the essay was "Any tool should be useful in the expected
way, but a truly great tool lends itself to uses you never expected." Even
though there were a lot of other good quotes, and some very interesting
discussion surrounding them, I still think this quote is my favorite. I am
actually a little surpised that I was the only one who upvoted it. Maybe this is
because it was farther down on the list. I like this quote because in general, I
believe that people very rarely make a big impact by doing exactly what they set
out to do. More often, they set out with a goal, but then are flexible and
observant enough to modify or completely alter their course. One example I think
of is Jeff Bezos pivoting Amazon from a bookseller to an online bazaar (😉). And
nowadays, they make all their money from cloud computing. It is also especially 
applicable to the world of open source because big projects with lots of
contirbutors are probably more likely to generate unique perspectives and follow
new directions.

<!--more-->

## Working More on Our Project - PR!!

I submitted [a Pull Request](https://github.com/bitwarden/clients/pull/8790) for 
Bitwarden's client repository. It was a prety small styling change in response
to a picky user's issue, but that is okay. I figure it is exacly the type of
issue that Bitwarden devs would rather not waste their time on. Also, once it
was pointed out, the misalignment of icons bothered me, too. The change itself
was easy, but the overall process took a lot longer than I thought. First I had
to find the source of the styling problem. I was able to use the web version
with inspect element to get me started, which was much easier than when I have
tried searching through the source code for other issues. Then, I had to read
through their other styling sheets to try and match the code style and figure
out the most appropriate way to make my change (e.g. should I create a new rule,
or modify the selector for an existing rule?). Finally, I was very careful to
follow their guidelines for version control and PRs. In the end, it was very
rewarding to submit the PR on GitHub and link it to an issue! I submitted it at
the end of class on Wednesday, so I am hoping they will review and accept it
soon.
