---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

## Codes of Conduct
This week, we learned about Codes of Conduct by examining various real-life
codes of conduct from different Open Source Projects, including
[Go](https://go.dev/) and [Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/). We found that
although most of the codes shared a lot of the same text, since they were mostly
based on the [Creator
Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct/),
they had subtle and sometimes not so subtle differences in wording that
emphasized community building and ideals in some cases, or outlined enforcement
mechanisms and various levels of responsibility in other instances. 

## My Opinion on Codes of Conduct

<!--more-->

Ultimately, I think the biggest issue with Codes of Conduct is that they can be
very challenging to enforce, even for projects that outline enforcement
mechanisms. Even when these mechanisms work, the nature of Open Source means
that people from all different backgrounds and experiences will constantly be
joining and leaving a project, or even just changing their position within a
project, and while a strictly enforced Code of Conduct might be able to punish
many transgressions, it will never prevent clashes completely. Also, I think
that sometimes there are just cultural differences that no Code of Conduct will
be able to overcome - something that is routine in one culture may be highly
offensive in another. A Code of Conduct may help lay out ground rules, but my
intuition tells me that most Codes are read in full only slightly more often 
than your average Terms and Conditions agreement.

For this reason, I wouldn't mind working on a project without a Code of Conduct.
I also find that I usually am not easily offended, especially on the internet. I
feel that I must include a disclaimer that this is not a moral judgement about
"cancel culture" or "wokeness", just a personal observation about myself - I
think that someone could say some very nasty things to me or about me on an
issue tracker and it would not completely ruin my day. But who knows? 

That said, I really enjoyed [Go's Code of
CConduct](https://go.dev/conduct#:~:text=Treat%20everyone%20with%20respect%20and,mail%20conduct%40golang.org.),
eespecially the nickname they used for contributors: "Gophers". I think this
sort of Code can help build community and really make a project feel like a more
welcoming place, and I suspect that there are other projects with similar Codes.
I would prefer to work for a project with this type of Code of Conduct because
of what it likely says about how the community views itself, and the pride and
joy that contributors likely take from their work.
