---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

## The Videos We Watched 

The Videos we watched we very interesting. Tidepool seems to be all about
openness and transparency, which are definitely big parts of the open source
philosophy. However, they don't seem to emphasize community involvement as
much as many of the other open source projects we have looked at. For example,
when we did project evaluations, we looked for things like issue trackers, 
community forums, codes of conduct, and contributor guidelines. It doesn't seem
like Tidepool would have many of those. Instead, their main focus is the transparency
aspect - not only is their source code public, they try to provide openness in
every aspect of their business. 

In my opinion, this is okay. Not every project will necessarily benefit from 
open source contributions. But Tidepool is still applying open source philosophies
to their project, and in doing so providing much needed trasnparency in the very
personal field of healthcare.

<!--more-->

## Working on Our Projects

The main thing I did for the Bitwarden project was making a comment on an issue.
One user complained about the behavior of a feature, and I concurred that the name
of the feature was a little unclear; I then suggested that the behavior be modified or
the name changed to more accurately reflect the behavior. In the end, the Bitwarden team
decided to change the name. I was going to offer to make this change, but I figured that 
the team would want to decide on the name themselves. So, next week I will be looking for
a new issue to submit a PR for.
