---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

## What is Open Source?
Before I began this semester, I thought that Open Source just meant software
whose source code was publicly available, free of charge. After learning about
the history of Open Source, I now know that the definition of the term actually
encompasses much more than just public source code, including details regarding
licenses and how they can be applied, as well as the right to modification. I
also learned that Open Source does not have to be code, or free (as in "free of
charge"). Now when I hear Open Source, I immediately think of licensing. I also
think of it as an appeasement to business interest who might have bene turned
off by RMS's more radical definition of Free Software. While I understand the
practicality of the Open Source definition, I sympathize more with the
philosophical viewpoint of Free Software.
<!--more-->
Then again, the practicality of Open Source is almost certainly what enabled it
to become so ubiquitous. Many projects with millions and billions of daily users
are built on Open Source foundations. In particular, I am interested in the
current debate regarding Large Language Models. Some groups are in favor of Open
Source LLMs, while others argue that the code for such models should remain
closed source. Funnily enough, the tech giant Meta (and NYU's Yann LeCun) is the
strongest supporter of Open Source LLMs, while the nonprofit OpenAI --
seriously, they even have _open_ in their name! -- has kept their source code
private. Both groups have their reasons: LeCun and Meta argue that making their
source code public has helped to rapidly improve and iterate upon their models,
faster than they could ever achieve on their own. They also make a moral
argument, claiming that such a powrful tool as generative AI should not be
gatekept, and by sharing the code behind it, they are levelling the playing
field, so to speak. I'm not sure if I buy it, because I think the AI race will
still be won by the groups with the most money and power who are able to command
the most GPUs, but it is a suspisciously generous sentiment from a company that is
not often known for its good will towards consumers. On the other hand, OpenAI
agrees with Meta about the potential of generative AI, but worries that open
source code will lead to this potential being misused or falling into the wrong
hands. After all, the definition of Open Source specifically states that the
license must apply to everybody equally, no matter how horrible they or their
intentions might be. I understand their point, but I think it is impossible to
keep the cat in the bag at this late stage. Also, determining who is worthy of
wielding LLMs seems an impossibly subjective and bias-prone task. I am reminded
of the atomic bomb, which despite being perhaps the most closely guarded secret
in American history, was soon replicated successfully by the Soviet Union,
sparking a tension filled era of nuclear brinksmanship. It would be naive to
suggest that sharing the design of the bomb would have avoided conflict, but
then it might be equally naive to pretend that generative AI can be kept from
the hands of bad actors even if we knew exactly who those bad actors were. I
suppose in the end I am partial to believe that LLMs should be Open. 

## Why did I choose Open Source Software Development?
I chose to study Open Source Software Development because I was attracted by
what I knew of the philosophies of Free Software (though I didn't understand the
distinction between that and Open Source yet). I also have wanted to contribute
to an Open Source project for some time now, but found it too intimidating to
navigate the issues page of some project on GitHub and try to submit a pull
request; in short, I wasn't sure where to start, and I hope to learn in this
class. 

## Examples of Open Source Projects
I also chose to take OSSD because I use Open Source projects daily. My most
frequently visited project is not software related at all: Wikipedia. I **love**
Wikipedia. I can spend hours researching topics I didn't even know existed
before I stumbled upon their page from some hyperlink. I even took a class about
Wikipedia a few semesters ago to satisfy a core requirement. Another non-code
project I use often is Open Street Map. As a runner, I often map out routes to
see how far they are, or scour the map looking for new trails to explore. I
usually use a site called OnTheGoMap, which is built on data from OSM. Back in
high school, I even helped contribute (sort of) by walking with a GPS watch
along an oft-frequented running trail with my friend to improve the accuracy of
the map. We were tired of being cheated out of our full mileage for the route!
As for Open Source software projects in particular, I probably use Linux the
most. Even though my machine runs MacOS (which is based off Unix, not Linux),
there are a lot of similarities between the two and when possible, I try to
learn from the Linux docs/manual/community because I think I want my next
machine to run Ubuntu. I also TA for an Operating Systems class which works
primarily with Linux, so I have to be able to answer questions and proide
tutorials for the Ubuntu Docker environment we have for lab work. A final
project I have worked with is Django, an open source python frameowkr for web
development. It was my first introduction to web dev, and has a lot of neat
features for integrating with databases, creating forms, and using html
templating. Nowadays, I am more likely to use React which is also open source!
In my most recent project, I worked with a brand new open source library which
combines React Native and NextJS navigation called Solito. It is currently
maintained by only one person! As such, the documentation wasn't as thorough as
I would've liked, but I was able to find a Discord community for the library and
ask a question which received an answer from the creator and maintainer himself!
That was a pretty cool experience, and only solidified my decision to learn more
about OSSD.

