---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

## Public Good Videos 

The videos I watched about food computers were pretty cool, albeit a little misleading in my opinion.
I was hoping for something a little more culinarily focused and less agriculturally inclined, but it 
was nonetheless very interesting and informative. I was most surprised by the class discussion, where
money was the number one career motivator (according to the anonymous poll). I want to make money too,
but at the end of the day I don't think I will be able to sleep at night if I don't feel my work has 
made a positive difference in some way. It doesn't necessarily have to be something world-changing and 
altruistic. It doesn't even have to be for free or even for the "social good" like the videos we watched
in class. But I want to feel that my work has value, to _someone_. That it made at least one person's
life a little bit better and wasn't entirely devoted to selfishness. But, we will see how long those 
convictions hold once I graduate.

<!--more-->
## My Ongoing Open Source Contributions

I have made a few open source contributions. I have mostly worked on the class website, suggesting a new
link to replace a broken one and providing a bug fix for a demo. I have also edited a Wikipedia page. I
changed "association football" to "soccer" on an American track athlete's page. This was pretty exciting 
because not only was my 🇺🇸 patriotic 🇺🇸 suggestion accepted, I got a message from a much more established
Wikipedia contributor thanking me and suggesting more places I could help, with a focus on track and field.
I think I will try to make some more edits on topics that interest me and get involved with those communities.
I have also been browsing the GitHub pages of lots of new open source projects that I learn about to see if
I can potentially contribute in the future. Two in particular I have looked at in the past week are [Fawkes](http://sandlab.cs.uchicago.edu/fawkes/),
an "Image Cloaking" tool that poisons facial recognition models and [Brave](https://brave.com/), a privacy-focused
browser. I think it is interesting that both of these open source tools are all about personal privacy. I don't
either project will be ideal for my big contribution, but I'll keep them in mind.

